This little piece of writing is not meant to be an extensive research on mimikatz, but just a small introduction to the tool and how it works. I didn't want to bore you with the details, hope you can learn something new from this :)


Mimikatz is a post-exploitation tool that is capable of extracting passwords from memory, as well as hashes, PIN codes and tickets for the Kerberos network identification protocol. It also makes it possible to carry out other types of attacks such as “pass-the-hash” or “pass-the-ticket” attacks or the Golden Kerberos tickets. Mimikatz leverages the Single Sign-on (SSO) feature of Windows to retrieve credentials. Until version 10 of Windows, the Microsoft OS used by default a function called WDigest to load encrypted passwords into memory, but also the secret key to decrypt them. WDigest was useful for authenticating multiple users on a corporate network or other organization, but it also allowed Mimikatz to dump memory and extract passwords. In 2013, starting with Windows 8.1, Microsoft allowed the feature to be disabled and it is now disabled by default in Windows 10. However, Windows still comes with WDigest, and an attacker who manages to gain administrative privileges can simply enable it and run Mimikatz. Windows introduced Microsoft Credential guard with Win 10; a tool to prevent the aforementioned attacks, but this option or tool is not enabled by default :p and even if it was, Mimikatz is not a priv esc tool, in order for it to work you would need to have a high privileged account, with such an account you could disable and enable whichever options you deem fit, and considering how many old machines are still running in the world with older versions of Windows, the nuisance power of Mimikatz is still high and will probably be for many years to come.

You can find Mimikatz's codebase at https://github.com/gentilkiwi/mimikatz/. It's author Benjamin Delpy, developed this tool in order to understand Windows security more, and to also learn C language, I think we should all strive to do the same, creating tools that could one day be used worldwide by many other security professionals, and we can then proudly say that it was developed by one of THNBD members :D thank you for your time.  
